part-1-data-pipelines/README.md, before:

# Question 1: Data Pipelines

## Table of Contents

- [Description](#project-description)
- [Key Requirements Gathered](#key-requirements-gathered)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Description

For this project, the `preprocess.py` script is the main script used for the preprocessing of data based on the requirements given. The `successful-applications` and `failed-applications` folders contain the processed datasets required for submission.

## Key Requirements Gathered

Schedule:
- Function should be run on an hourly basis. (use 0 * * * * * CRON expression later on)

Filters (deemed unsuccessful applications):
- Filter by mobile number. (must be exactly 8 digits in length)
- Filter by age. (must be > 18 years after 1st Jan 2022)
- Filter by valid email (email should follow @emailprovider.com or @emailprovider.net. use REGEX)
- Filter by name (must have no null names)
    
Transformation
- Name column to be split into full_name and last_name. (pandas apply)
- Date of birth field to be parsed into YYYYMMDD format.
- Create 'above_18' column. (where age > 18)
- Create 'membership_id' column that follows the formula <last_name>_<SHA256hash(YYYYMMDD)[-5]>

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

This project was done in Python 3.9 with the following package:

- pandas==1.5.3

### Installation

Steps:

1. Ensure that your terminal is in the part-1-data-pipelines folder. 
2. Change to the project directory (if required): `cd part-1-data-pipelines`
3. Install the required packages: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage

The requirements of this project is to have the processing of data done every hour.

1. Any new data files to be processed are expected to be placed in the `ingestion-data` folder.
2. Run the preprocessing script hourly: 
    - include the following cron expression within your crontab:
    ```bash
    0 * * * * cd /path/to/your/govtech-data-engineer-test/part-1-data-pipelines && ./run_script.sh
    ```
3. Processed datasets will be saved in the `successful-applications` and `failed-applications` folders.

## Directory Structure

After running the preprocess code for the first time, the directory should look something like the following:

```
part-1-data-pipelines/
│ README.md
│ preprocess.py
│ requirements.txt
| logger.log
├── ingestion-data/
│ data_file1.csv
│ data_file2.csv
├── failed-applications/
│ processed_data_file1.csv
│ processed_data_file2.csv
├── successful-applications/
│ processed_data_file1.csv
│ processed_data_file2.csv
```

Commit message:

Slight adjustment to the crontab step in the readme for part 1 data pipelines folder.

part-1-data-pipelines/README.md, after:

# Question 1: Data Pipelines

## Table of Contents

- [Description](#project-description)
- [Key Requirements Gathered](#key-requirements-gathered)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Description

For this project, the `preprocess.py` script is the main script used for the preprocessing of data based on the requirements given. The `successful-applications` and `failed-applications` folders contain the processed datasets required for submission.

## Key Requirements Gathered

Schedule:
- Function should be run on an hourly basis. (use 0 * * * * * CRON expression later on)

Filters (deemed unsuccessful applications):
- Filter by mobile number. (must be exactly 8 digits in length)
- Filter by age. (must be > 18 years after 1st Jan 2022)
- Filter by valid email (email should follow @emailprovider.com or @emailprovider.net. use REGEX)
- Filter by name (must have no null names)
    
Transformation
- Name column to be split into full_name and last_name. (pandas apply)
- Date of birth field to be parsed into YYYYMMDD format.
- Create 'above_18' column. (where age > 18)
- Create 'membership_id' column that follows the formula <last_name>_<SHA256hash(YYYYMMDD)[-5]>

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

This project was done in Python 3.9 with the following package:

- pandas==1.5.3

### Installation

Steps:

1. Ensure that your terminal is in the part-1-data-pipelines folder. 
2. Change to the project directory (if required): `cd part-1-data-pipelines`
3. Install the required packages: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Usage

The requirements of this project is to have the processing of data done every hour.

1. Any new data files to be processed are expected to be placed in the `ingestion-data` folder.
2. Run the preprocessing script hourly: 
    - include the following cron expression within your crontab:
    ```bash
    # Make sure to change the path within the <>
    0 * * * * cd </path/to/your/govtech-data-engineer-test/part-1-data-pipelines> && ./run_script.sh
    ```
3. Processed datasets will be saved in the `successful-applications` and `failed-applications` folders.

## Directory Structure

After running the preprocess code for the first time, the directory should look something like the following:

```
part-1-data-pipelines/
│ README.md
│ preprocess.py
│ requirements.txt
| logger.log
├── ingestion-data/
│ data_file1.csv
│ data_file2.csv
├── failed-applications/
│ processed_data_file1.csv
│ processed_data_file2.csv
├── successful-applications/
│ processed_data_file1.csv
│ processed_data_file2.csv
```
